hello it is it is currently 2:30 a.m. in
the morning I have just finished moving
into my new apartment and I had to
basically create a I've set this all up
it is not the Lighting's bad whatever
we're gonna get into this bear with me I
apologize it's not the best production
but I had to do this video I had to do
this video because because it is 2:30 in
the morning and in just a few hours
there's gonna be some news that comes
out from write games which I'm going to
tell you guys about and it's actually
it's actually much bigger than the news
that I think you're gonna hear I'm gonna
explain why so the way I'm gonna do this
I know I know you saw maybe the title of
the YouTube video I just wanna for
purposes of clarity I'm gonna separate
this into what is getting announced the
actual context that you need to
understand what is getting announced and
that's just all like fact-based stuff
then I'm gonna give you my analysis in
my take on the other end of it that way
I'm just kind of fair and you can decide
at what point in time you want to drop
off okay so what is getting announced
today is that if you have ESPN Plus
which is a subscription service for ESPN
subscribers you can watch na LCS games
using that subscription service SP plus
for those of you that don't know if you
have it you can watch other sporting
events and other types of content it's
basically their internet based service
like HBO GO or HBO now or Netflix or
whatever instead of having ESPN as a
television channel you can have ESPN
Plus you consume content that way so LCS
is going to be part of that package now
so it doesn't matter to you if you don't
have ESPN Plus you just don't get to
watch it on ESPN plus you still
available on on twitch and YouTube my
understanding is that they don't view
themselves as competing with twitch and
YouTube this is something different and
one of the things that they're really
really excited to talk about is how they
feel like this is bringing the LCS the
NA LCS to a broader audience right see
the ESPN Plus subscribers out there
they can actually find this on on there
it's more of like the mainstream
audience so they're touting it is this
big thing where now the LCS is coming to
a bunch of mainstream sports fans all
right
that's that's what the announcement is
and the thing to understand is that okay
you have to understand that at the end
of 2016
you've probably heard a little bit about
this there was a really big deal that
was announced called the BAM Tech deal
BAM Tech was formerly known as MLB
advanced media MLB events media was a
technology company that was created by
among others the owners of Major League
Baseball a bunch of the owners so that
major league baseball games could be
broadcast in the u.s. to people online
through a subscription service a very
advanced company ended up being the
paying the backbone for a lot of other
video services went from being MLB
events media to BAM Tech which got
invested in by Disney which owns ESPN
stay with me Disney which owns ESPN
eventually Disney bought the whole
package of it all right so this
announcement there was a big
announcement around all this at the end
of 2016 about a really big deal that was
being done by BAM Tech and Riot Games
I'm gonna link to it in the description
of this video you can look at the like
there's a 45-minute interview that I did
with Riot Games and then the president
of BAM Tech Bob Bowman this is when I
was like ah Hui sports and let me tell
you guys this was like the biggest deal
that was ever announced in eSports in my
opinion alright so the nature of this
deal was that it was supposed to run
through 2023 if I remember the year
correctly was like a seven year long
deal with an average an average of 50
million dollars a year going to Riot
Games for the rights to to this deal
basically what was happening was BAM
Tech was going to make a special
experience a special stream in a special
app
that they were gonna create just for
League of Legends fans so a pretty good
example of this is that the BAM Tech BAM
Tech does all the technology for HBO Go
and HBO now I think both of them if not
one of them either way they're very
similar so if you've used what that
acknowledged II before you've used that
player that experience that is something
that you know it's kind of an example of
something they could have brought to
League of Legends so this was a really
big deal alongside the fact that they
were going to be developing an app they
were going to also be helping write do
sales so they're gonna bring
sponsorships and ads and money to it
this was sort of seen in my opinion I'm
trying to avoid my opinion but for the
just for context like this was seen as
instead of Riot betting on Twitch long
term right was gonna bet on this like
really big technology company huge deal
did did amazing video streaming for
traditional sports and and the this
company was gonna be like the really big
this was gonna be like the the flagship
thing that really brought League of
Legends into an amazing viewing
experience and and the money the
business on the other side of this was
it was so huge right like 50 million
dollars a year Riot was gonna be getting
for this and again like just watch like
the first if you really care about this
any wanna learn more just watch like the
first ten minutes of the video that I
did the interview that I did that's
linked there from the end of 2016 where
I'm interviewing everybody this was a
huge huge huge deal when it got
announced and and and I think the only
thing that really compares to it is the
giant like 90 million dollar deal that
overwatch League and twitch announced
somewhat recently so I cannot I cannot
understate how much of a huge deal this
BAM Tech thing was going to be it's just
a flagship thing etc sorry if I'm
rambling it is late I am exhausted
I moved so imagine a world where you've
got riot and bam Tech comes out they
announced this big app they're going to
create all these amazing experiences
they talk a lot of
how bamdeck talks a lot about how they
want to create like a best-in-class
experience for customers of League of
Legends so if you are into na LCS it's
gonna be the biggest best thing ever not
only you're gonna have an amazing
viewing experience but you're also like
it's it's amazing for the league and for
the ecosystem because all this money is
gonna be pouring in everything is
amazing this is gonna be like basically
like foundation of so much of what law
esports is going to be built on in the
future now this is at the end of 2016
and shortly thereafter
so they Inc they sign this deal they
announced it woohoo a year and a half
later no word had been heard about this
until until basically today so what's
important to know is that after this
announcement came out Disney which had a
minority stake in BAM tech ended up
purchasing basically the rest of it the
majority stake and so BAM tech became
owned by Disney suddenly this deal
between Riot was also deal between
Disney and Disney Disney owns ESPN in
the states here ESPN for those of you
watching internationally you probably
know about it as a huge huge sports
network and and content network and all
that stuff so today they announced that
any LCS games are going to be on ESP n--
plus and that this this is the new deal
that the the deal that was announced at
the end of 2016
is gone and that this is the new deal
there is a multi-year deal unlike unlike
that announcement at the end of 2016
where they talked a lot about how much
money this deal is gonna be for and how
many years it was gonna be for about
seven I think they have said they're
they're not saying any other information
there's no conversation about money
there's no conversation about how many
years there's just so basically no beta
to go off of other than like this one
this one thing and and again this is a
new deal so everything you heard before
about the crazy big video platform the
customized app the great experience for
League of Legends fans all that stuff is
done the money is done that deal is done
this is the new one all right so that's
the facts that's what's been announced
today is that this ESPN Plus thing is
happening and that basically this is
this is where we're getting right of the
other deal that announcement all that
stuff is now not relevant all right so
there's the facts now we're gonna get
into my opinion and then my analysis so
you can stop watching now if you don't
care if you want to go read it somebody
else's opinion and I encourage you to do
that because I'm sure there'll be other
opinions but now we're getting into to
me explain to you my take my take is
this this is disastrous this is really
really not good news no one should be
happy about this
in my opinion riot should not be happy
about it na LCS owners should not be
happy about it especially after they
just got franchised in ESPN and bam Tech
should not be happy about this because
they had a giant dream for what this
thing was going to be and now it is it
is the tiniest thing ever and I think
viewers and spectators shouldn't be
happy about this because they were
basically told even if a lot of you
might have forgotten or maybe missed the
memo that they were gonna get a an
amazing experience and an app and all
this great stuff and this investment was
gonna come in and all that is
essentially gone now is essentially gone
I I was trying to think of a good way to
to explain like the differences in this
right because say what I have seen is
there's some language I think in the and
the press release around this I maybe I
saw someplace else where it this is
supposed to be the evolution of that
deal right for context saying this is
the evolution of the deal in my opinion
is like saying hey we are we're gonna
we're gonna build an amazing Resort and
Casino and world-class like amazing
experience on the Las Vegas Strip right
this amazing resort tons and tons and
tons of money is gonna go to this it's
gonna be it's gonna be amazing
everyone's gonna want to
here and then a year-and-a-half goes by
you hear nothing else about the memo and
they say guess what because of because
of how crazy it is in Vegas right now we
have decided the better thing to do is
to build five billboards outside of the
Las Vegas Strip on the freeway coming
into Las Vegas and that's the New Deal
the New Deal is five billboards okay I
like I cannot explain to you how
disappointing how disappointing this is
the new kind of talk about this again I
mentioned this earlier is that the ESPN
Plus situation is gonna be great because
it's gonna bring Lee legends to like a
broader audience that means that for
those of you who watch League of Legends
this is not a product for you or at
least they're not they're not targeting
you you know they're they're not trying
to compete with twitch they're not
trying to create YouTube they're not
trying to create like a premium
experience for you this is to bring
League of Legends to a broader audience
so you don't get like the awesome stuff
that was talked about before you don't
get the app you don't get any of this
stuff that's done and on the business
side and the business side this is
disastrous I'm not saying it's the end
of the world or the end of na LCS or
lolly sports but this was going to be
like the core revenue you know that was
gonna come into the NA LCS and sorry
into into lolly sports as a whole and
you got to imagine that the owners that
were coming in and willing to spend ten
million to get into the NA LCS have seen
this I mean you can go out around at
Google you can look for all the Articles
that was that this was a landmark deal
and now that deal is nothing all that
money is seemingly gone the deal just
sort of helped drive sales for the for
lolly sports events seemingly gone it's
just all over
it's all over so we basically went from
the biggest coolest announcement that
had ever happened in eSports from a
business perspective and kind of from a
technology perspective by the way in
terms of what the they were touting is a
really great experience that events
we're gonna have and now we have
essentially nothing
no offense the ESPN plus thing but again
in comparison it's nothing so I I don't
know what to say it would be very easy
for me here to just say write sucks and
maybe they do suck I don't know the
problem is the problem is that there is
no information on what went on behind
the scenes so here's a good example I a
year ago around actually right around
this time worked at a company that got
acquired by a much bigger company and my
amazing awesome thing that everyone was
loving got cancelled because it didn't
fit into the bigger story for that
company that's the Verizon Yahoo story
perhaps.perhaps Disney acquired BAM Tech
and there was all sorts of drama and
weird stuff behind the scenes and and at
the end like Disney just realized they
couldn't prioritize this or they didn't
have the HR is like people they're sorry
make HR there were human resource issues
that stopped the people that we're gonna
work on the project from being part of
this project or they got shifted or they
left or offices closed down or any
number of different things like there's
a lot that shifts whenever something
like this happens but it's hard not to
imagine that Disney would want this and
that BAM tech would want this so maybe
it was on the right side maybe Riot was
unable to deliver their end of the
bargain when it comes technology maybe
the viewing numbers weren't where they
needed to be this is the problem is it's
all just speculation and so it's really
hard to figure
who to blame in this situation it and
then my sd card ran out of space and I
had to get up and reset anyway at the
end of at the end of that interview that
I did at the end of 2016 there was kind
of this moment where I asked about how
the it was the first time that I had
really seen right be really transparent
with numbers and sort of the business
side of the eSports landscape I guess
you know normally they didn't talk too
much about that but here we actually got
like how many years to deal with or how
much money etc and so I asked I asked
like is this something where you guys
are going to be more transparent in the
future is this a good sign and I think
it was Whelan might have been jared but
one of the right guys said to me that
yeah they couldn't they couldn't do it
all the time right they couldn't talk
about the sponsorship situations all the
time because sometimes sponsors don't
want to do that sometimes it's just not
the right time but but here you know the
overall day we're going to try to be
more transparent in the future what is
disappointing to me about this is we
just don't we have so little information
about this we don't know how many years
this deal is for sorry we don't know how
much money in sports it's probably not
very much ears are very much money and I
kind of get it I get it you don't want
to be too transparent about stuff that
is basically like a loss but I don't
know it's it's still disappointing and
anyway just the the point is I think the
big question is where do we go from here
what's next like this is a giant loss
this is giant loss for for League of
Legends eSports but also eSports as a
whole and so how do we recover from this
I think I think this is the most public
failure that riots eSports endeavour has
hit maybe ever and probably one of the
larger failures for that company
certainly they've they've probably had a
lot of failures behind the scenes they
probably had a lot of missteps that
probably canceled games but you know I
get banquet chamber Dominion this
there's a there's been a lot of mistakes
but I the scale this is pretty big so I
hope I hope that it
is a a moment for riot to really reflect
and say like oh crap we recover from
this how do we recover from this and
move aggressively to monetize the league
to start filling in the gaps from what
is going to be a really big lack of
revenue that you expected and and also I
think not just due to traditional
sponsorships but I think the broadcast
rights idea was a smart one and figuring
out a great way to distribute your game
was a your broadcast was a smart one I
would love to see them potentially do
something similar to what overwatch
league did with twitch because I'm
guessing there's be some interests on
the twitch side for the Savino a very
similar big deal
with great integration and to twitch and
and if not twitch there may be YouTube
you know like let's figure out a way to
if it's not bent gonna be BAM Tech how
do we figure this out because right now
you know the business side the viewing
experience side it's just it's not what
we thought it was gonna be so I don't
know I hope that works out again like I
I don't there's a lot of unanswered
questions we'll probably never get the
answers to I I'm not sitting here gonna
scream anybody I'm just gonna talk about
how disappointed I am and that's that's
really what the point is of this video
it's just a huge disappointment for
everyone involved
so anyway hopefully that makes sense I
sorry for the random terrible nature of
this I probably rambled a lot it is now
coming in at 3 a.m. and I've been moving
all day so production here is probably
not great don't have a sponsor for this
Travis talks if you would like to
support if you found this helpful if you
thought it was insightful please feel
free to hit up the patreon or the
support links below that'd be really
appreciated thanks for watching